.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii hf-stat.1
.\"
.TH HF-STAT 1 "February 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.LO 1

.SH NAME
hf-stat \- prints the content of a hash file created by fs-hasher.


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B hf-stat
.RB [ -fhtw ]
.I hash-files
.B ...


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hf-stat 
prints
.I hash_file
information, per-file information, and per-chunk information from
the
.IR hash_files .
Without any options only the
.I hash_file
information is printed (e.g., the date when the hash file was collected and the
total number of bytes scanned).


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\^f
Instructs to print per-file metadata, such as file names, file sizes, and inode numbers.
Can be combined with
.B -h
and
.B -w
options to list chunk hashes and whole-file hashes, respectively.

.TP
.B \-\^h
Instructs to print hashes, sizes, and compression ratios for all chunks in a
.IR hash_file . 

.TP
.B \-\^t
Instructs to compute and print the total number of files, chunks, and bytes in all
.IR hash_files .

.TP
.B \-\^w
Instructs to compute and print whole-file hashes based on per-chunk hashes. Whole-file
hash is computed by XORing the hashes of all chunks in the file.


.SH EXAMPLES
# hf-stat file.hash

# hf-stat -f file.hash

# hf-stat -fh file.hash

.SH AUTHORS
File systems and Storage Lab (FSL) at Stony Brook University in collaboration
with Harvey Mudd College (HMC) and Philip Shilane. Vasily Tarasov, Will Buik,
Geoff Kuenning, Sonam Mandal, Amar Mudrankit, Philip Shilane, Sagar Trehan, and
Erez Zadok. The package is maintained via
.B <fsltraces@fsl.cs.sunysb.edu>
mailing list.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fs-hasher (1),
.BR hf-anonymizer (1),
.BR hf-simdex (1)
