.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii hf-anonymizer.1
.\"
.TH HF-ANONYMIZER 1 "February 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.LO 1

.SH NAME
hf-anonymizer \- anonymizes the contents of a hash file.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B hf-anonymizer
.RB [ -d ]
.B -k
.I encryption_key
.RB [ -o
.IR output_file ]
.RB [ -p
.IR padding ]
.I hash_file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hf-anonymizer 
anonymizes file paths and chunk hashes in a 
.I hash_file
using DES encryption. It can also
decrypt previously anonymized hash files.
Path components are truncated
or padded to 16 hexadecimal symbols [0-9a-f].
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\^d
Instructs to perform decryption instead of encryption.

.TP
.B \-\^k encryption_key
Specifies the
.I encryption_key
string to use for a
.I hash_file
encryption or decryption.

.TP
.B \-\^o output_file
Specifies the name of the output file.  By default, the name of the output file
is constructed by appending 
.B .anon
(in encryption mode) or
.B .deanon
(in decryption mode) to the
.IR hash_file .

.TP
.B \-\^p padding
Specifies padding content to use for encryption. Should contain 16 symbols.
Default is a string of '0' symbols.

.SH EXAMPLES
# hf-anonymizer -k mypassword file.hash

# hf-anonymizer -d -k mypassword file.hash.anon

# hf-anonymizer -k mypassword -p 5017203006407089 file.hash

.SH AUTHORS
File systems and Storage Lab (FSL) at Stony Brook University in collaboration
with Harvey Mudd College (HMC) and Philip Shilane. Vasily Tarasov, Will Buik,
Geoff Kuenning, Sonam Mandal, Amar Mudrankit, Philip Shilane, Sagar Trehan, and
Erez Zadok. The package is maintained via
.B <fsltraces@fsl.cs.sunysb.edu>
mailing list.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fs-hasher (1),
.BR hf-simdex (1),
.BR hf-stat (1)
